1. What is jazz dance?
a) A social dance popular in the 1920s
b) A form of dance that originated in the 19th century
*c) A theatrical dance style characterized by syncopated rhythms, isolations, and improvisation
d) A type of dance that is performed to jazz music

2. Who is considered to be the father of jazz dance?
a) Bob Fosse
b) Gene Kelly
*c) Jack Cole
d) Gus Giordano

3. Which dance style heavily influenced the development of jazz dance?
*a) Ballet
b) Hip hop
c) Latin dance
d) Contemporary dance 

4. What is a jazz square?
*a) A type of dance move in which the dancer steps forward, then crosses one foot over the other, and then steps back
b) A type of jazz music that is played at a fast tempo
c) A type of jazz dance performed in a square formation
d) A type of jazz dance that is performed in a sequence of four steps 

5. Which famous jazz musician's music heavily influenced the development of jazz dance in the 1920s?
a) Duke Ellington 
b) Benny Goodman
*c) Louis Armstrong
d) Count Basie

6. What is a jazz walk?
*a) A type of dance move in which the dancer walks forward in a stylized manner
b) A type of jazz dance that is performed in a walk-like fashion
c) A type of jazz music that features a walking bass line
d) A type of jazz dance that incorporates elements of tap dancing 

7. What is a kick ball change?
*a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer kicks one leg forward, steps on the ball of the foot, and then changes weight to the other foot
b) A type of jazz music that features a strong backbeat on the second and fourth beats of the measure
c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and kicks both legs out in front of them
d) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer spins around on one foot

8. Which choreographer is known for incorporating jazz dance into musical theater?
a) Agnes de Mille
b) Martha Graham
c) George Balanchine
*d) Twyla Tharp

9. Which dance style is closely related to jazz dance and features a lot of the same movements and techniques?
a) Ballet
b) Tap dance
c) Hip hop dance
*d) All of the above

10. What is a pivot turn?
*a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer pivots on one foot and turns around
b) A type of jazz music that is played at a moderate tempo
c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and turns around in the air
d) A type of jazz dance that is performed in a circle formation

11. Which dance company is known for its use of jazz dance in its performances?
*a) Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater
b) New York City Ballet
c) Paul Taylor Dance Company
d) Martha Graham Dance Company

12. What is a jazz leap?
a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and kicks both legs out in front of them
b) A type of jazz music that features a lot of brass instruments
c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and spins in the air
*d) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and lands on one foot

13. Who is considered to be the first jazz dance choreographer?
*a) Jack Cole
b) Bob Fosse
c) George Balanchine 

14. Which of the following is a characteristic of jazz dance?
a) Slow and smooth movements
b) Emphasis on symmetry and alignment
*c) Use of syncopated rhythms
d) Use of traditional classical ballet vocabulary

15. What type of dancer helped make the charleston a viral dance?
a) B-boy
*b) Flapper
c) Vaudville
d) BoJangles

16. Which of the following is NOT a common jazz dance position?
a) First position
b) Second position
c) Jazz fourth position
*d) Fifth position

17. Who was the creator of jazz hands?
*a) Bob Fosse
b) Jack Cole
c) Jerome Robbins
d) Michael Jackson

18. What famous child star did Bojangles tap with in movies?
*a) Shirley Temple
b) Catherine Wilson
c) Fred Astaire
d) Ginger Rodgers

19. What is a ball change?
a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and kicks both legs out in front of them
*b) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer steps on the ball of one foot and changes weight to the other foot
c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer spins around on one foot
d) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and lands on one foot

20. Which of the following is a common jazz dance turn?
*a) Pirouette
b) Chassé
c) Pas de bourrée
d) Sauté 

21. What is a jazz split?
a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and splits their legs apart in the air
b) A type of jazz music that is played at a slow tempo
*c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer performs a split on the ground
d) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer kicks one leg out to the side while keeping the other leg stationary

22. Which of the following is NOT a common jazz dance jump?
a) Jeté
b) Sissonne
c) Sauté
*d) Rond de jambe

23. What is a jazz hop?
a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and lands on one foot
b) A type of jazz music that features a lot of brass instruments
c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and spins in the air
*d) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and lands on both feet simultaneously 

24. Which of the following is a common jazz dance term for a kick?
a) Saut
*b) Battement
c) Jeté
d) Pas de bourrée

25. What is a jazz chassé?
a) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer performs a series of small, quick steps
b) A type of jazz music that features a lot of percussion instruments
*c) A type of jazz dance move in which the dancer jumps and kicks both legs out in front of them

26. Who is considered the "mother of modern dance"?
a) Martha Graham
*b) Isadora Duncan
c) Doris Humphrey
d) Ruth St. Denis

27. Which dance form was a major influence on the development of modern dance?
*a) Ballet
b) Hip hop
c) Jazz dance
d) Ballroom dance

28. Which choreographer was known for their use of improvisation in their work?
a) Alvin Ailey
*b) Merce Cunningham
c) Martha Graham
d) Twyla Tharp

29. Which of the following was a political movement that had an influence on modern dance?
a) The Civil Rights Movement
b) The Industrial Revolution
c) The French Revolution
*d) The Romantic Movement

30. Which of the following choreographers created works that were inspired by the natural world?
a) Martha Graham
*b) Isadora Duncan
c) Doris Humphrey
d) Alvin Ailey

31. Which of the following dance companies was founded by Martha Graham?
a) Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater
b) Paul Taylor Dance Company
*c) Martha Graham Dance Company
d) New York City Ballet

32. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of repetition in their work?
a) Twyla Tharp
*b) Merce Cunningham
c) Martha Graham
d) Alvin Ailey

33. Which choreographer was a member of the Judson Dance Theater?
*a) Trisha Brown
b) Martha Graham
c) Isadora Duncan
d) Doris Humphrey

34. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of pedestrian movements in their work?
*a) Merce Cunningham
b) Martha Graham
c) Twyla Tharp
d) Alvin Ailey

35. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of "contact improvisation" in their work?
*a) Trisha Brown
b) Alvin Ailey
c) Martha Graham
d) Merce Cunningham

36. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of multimedia in their work?
*a) Merce Cunningham
b) Trisha Brown
c) Martha Graham
d) Alvin Ailey

37. Which choreographer was known for their use of "postmodern dance"?
*a) Yvonne Rainer
b) Martha Graham
c) Isadora Duncan
d) Alvin Ailey

38. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of humor in their work?
*a) Twyla Tharp
b) Alvin Ailey
c) Martha Graham
d) Merce Cunningham

39. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of repetition and pattern in their work?
a) Trisha Brown
*b) Merce Cunningham
c) Martha Graham
d) Alvin Ailey

40. Which of the following choreographers was known for their use of social and political themes in their work?
*a) Alvin Ailey
b) Martha Graham
c) Twyla Tharp
d) Bill T. Jones

41. Who is considered the "father of modern dance"?
a) Isadora Duncan
b) Martha Graham
c) Doris Humphrey
*d) Ted Shawn

42. Which of the following is a fundamental element of modern dance?
a) Turnout
b) Pointed feet
*c) Musicality
d) Flexibility

43. Which of the following is a basic principle of modern dance technique?
a) Emphasis on grace and elegance
b) Use of vertical alignment
*c) Use of intricate footwork
d) Focus on athleticism

44. Which of the following is a common movement quality in modern dance?
a) Sharp, precise movements
*b) Fluid, continuous movements
c) Hesitant, tentative movements
d) Rapid, explosive movements

45. Which of the following is a common type of movement phrase in modern dance?
a) Pirouettes
b) Pas de bourrée
c) Sauté jumps
*d) Floor work

46. Which of the following is a common floor work technique in modern dance?
a) Plié
b) Rond de jambe
*c) Roll-up
d) Chassé

47. Which of the following is a common improvisational technique used in modern dance?
a) Phrase repetition
*b) Contact improvisation
c) Choreographed sequences
d) Call-and-response

48. Which of the following is a basic modern dance position?
a) First position
b) Second position
c) Fifth position
*d) Parallel position 

49. Which of the following is a basic modern dance turn?
*a) Chaîné turns
b) Fouetté turns
c) Pirouettes en dehors
d) Piqué turns

50. Which of the following is a common partner work technique in modern dance?
a) Lifts and throws
b) Ballroom dance-style partnering
*c) Contact improvisation
d) Pas de deux 

51. Which of the following is a common modern dance performance venue?
a) Opera house
b) Ballet theater
c) Contemporary art museum
*d) Black box theater

52. Which of the following is a common music genre used in modern dance performances?
*a) Classical music
b) Jazz music
c) Hip hop music
d) Electronic music

53. Which of the following is a common costume style in modern dance performances?
a) Tutus and pointe shoes
*b) Leotards and tights
c) Ball gowns and dress shoes
d) Jeans and sneakers

54. Which of the following is a common lighting technique used in modern dance performances?
a) Spotlights on individual dancers
*b) Soft, diffuse lighting
c) Flashing lights and strobes
d) Bright, colorful lights

55. Which of the following is a common stage design element in modern dance performances?
a) Elaborate sets and scenery
*b) Minimalist sets and props
c) Realistic backdrops and scenery
d) Traditional proscenium stage

56. Which of the following is a common choreographic structure in modern dance performances?
a) Narrative storytelling
*b) Abstract movement exploration
c) Strict adherence to classical ballet vocabulary
d) Synchronized group routines

57. Which of the following is a common rehearsal technique used in modern dance?
a) Learning choreography from video
b) Memorizing steps and counts
*c) Improvisation exercises
d) Rehearsing with live music

58. Which of the following is a common warm-up technique in modern dance classes?
a) Barre exercises
*b) Pilates exercises
c) Yoga poses
d) Running laps

59. Which of the following is not an element of choreography?
a) Time
b) Space
*c) Costumed
d) Energy

60. What does the term "phrasing" mean in choreography?
*a) The way movements are strung together
b) The way dancers count music
c) The tempo of the music
d) The way dancers move in relation to each other 

61. Which of the following is a fundamental aspect of time in choreography?
a) Timing of movements
b) Use of rhythm
c) Duration of movements
*d) All of the above

62. What does the term "canon" mean in choreography?
a) A group of movements performed by one dancer
b) A group of movements performed in unison by multiple dancers
*c) A group of movements performed in succession by multiple dancers
d) A group of movements performed in a circle by multiple dancers

63. What does the term "mirroring" mean in choreography?
a) Dancers performing the same movements simultaneously
b) Dancers performing the same movements in succession
*c) Dancers performing movements that reflect each other
d) Dancers performing movements that are completely opposite

64. Which of the following is a fundamental aspect of space in choreography?
a) The use of levels
b) The use of formations
c) The use of pathways
*d) All of the above

65. What does the term "symmetry" mean in choreography?
a) Movements that are performed by one dancer
*b) Movements that are performed in unison by multiple dancers
c) Movements that are performed by opposite sides of the body
d) Movements that are performed in a circular formation

66. What does the term "focus" mean in choreography?
*a) The direction of the dancers' gaze
b) The intensity of the dancers' movements
c) The tempo of the music
d) The use of levels in the choreography

67. Which of the following is a fundamental aspect of body in choreography?
a) Use of facial expressions
b) Use of gesture
c) Use of body alignment
*d) All of the above

68. What does the term "dynamics" mean in choreography?
a) The use of weight and flow in movements
b) The use of high and low levels in movements
c) The use of fast and slow tempos in movements
*d) All of the above

69. What does the term "motif" mean in choreography?
a) A group of movements performed by one dancer
b) A group of movements performed in unison by multiple dancers
*c) A repeated movement or gesture that serves as a building block for the choreography
d) A movement or gesture that is performed in opposition to the other dancers

70. What does the term "levels" mean in choreography?
a) The height of the dancers' jumps
b) The height of the dancers' kicks
*c) The vertical positioning of the dancers on stage
d) The tempo of the music

71. What does the term "pathway" mean in choreography?
a) The direction in which the dancers are facing
*b) The way the dancers move through space
c) The way the dancers use their arms
d) The way the dancers use their feet 

72. Which of the following is considered the birthplace of hip hop?
*a) New York City
b) Los Angeles
c) Chicago
d) Miami 

73. Who is considered the founder of hip hop dance?
a) Michael Jackson
b) James Brown
*c) Afrika Bambaataa
d) MC Hammer

74. Which of the following is not a fundamental aspect of hip hop dance?
a) Isolation
b) Syncopation
*c) Ballet technique
d) Groove

75. What is a "toprock" in hip hop dance?
a) A type of hat commonly worn by hip hop dancers
*b) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the feet
c) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the hands
d) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the head

76. What is a "freeze" in hip hop dance?
a) A pause in the music
*b) A pose held for a few seconds
c) A move that involves jumping in the air and landing in a split position
d) A move that involves spinning on the head

77. What is a "popping" in hip hop dance?
a) A style of dance that involves movements that make the body look fluid
*b) A style of dance that involves sharp and sudden movements of the body
c) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the feet
d) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the hands

78. What is a "lock" in hip hop dance?
a) A pose held for a few seconds
b) A style of dance that involves movements that make the body look fluid
*c) A style of dance that involves sharp and sudden movements of the body
d) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the hands

79. What is a "wave" in hip hop dance?
*a) A style of dance that involves movements that make the body look fluid
b) A style of dance that involves sharp and sudden movements of the body
c) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the feet
d) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the hands 

80. Which of the following is a fundamental aspect of groove in hip hop dance?
a) Use of levels
b) Use of arm movements
c) Use of weight transfer
*d) All of the above

81. What New York borough did hip hop start in?
a) Manhattan
b) Queens
*c) Bronx
d) Brooklyn

82. What is a "cypher" in hip hop dance?
*a) A circle of dancers taking turns dancing in the center
b) A group of dancers performing in unison
c) A dance move that involves jumping and spinning
d) A type of hat commonly worn by hip hop dancers

83. What is a "crumping" in hip hop dance?
a) A style of dance that involves movements that make the body look fluid
*b) A style of dance that involves sharp and sudden movements of the body
c) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the feet
d) A style of dance that involves movements performed on the hands

84. Who is considered the founder of krumping?
a) Missy Elliott
b) Lil Wayne
*c) Tommy the Clown
d) Snoop Dogg

